This article tells the story of a runner who won an Olympic marathon with no shoes. His name was Abebe Bikila. In 1960, in the city of Rome, he became the first Black African to win an Olympic gold medal in the marathon. Many people say it was one of the greatest moments in the history of sport.

Bikila was born in a mountain region of Ethiopia. As a boy, he worked as a herder of cattle. When he was a teenager, he travelled to the capital city, Addis Ababa. There he saw the guards of the royal palace in training, and he was impressed. At nineteen, he joined the guards. All the guards were told to exercise hard, and Bikila soon found out that he could run very well.

At first, he ran the 5,000 and 10,000 metres. Then, in 1959, he ran his first marathon. A coach from Sweden saw his talent and gave him a proper training plan. One month before the Olympic Games, Bikila won the Ethiopian trials. He ran at a height of more than 2,400 metres above sea level. And he ran faster than the Olympic record.

So he went to Rome. But just before the race, his running shoes fell apart. He went to a shop and bought a new pair. They gave him blisters. So he made a bold decision. He would run the biggest race of his life with no shoes at all.

The race started at half past five in the evening. This was to avoid the heat. Since it would finish after dark, hundreds of soldiers stood along the road with torches. The course passed many famous sights of Rome. Sixty-nine runners from thirty-five countries stood at the start line.

Almost nobody had heard of Bikila. The favourite was a runner from the Soviet Union who held the world record. At the ten-kilometre mark, Bikila was in the front group. By twenty kilometres, he and a runner from Morocco had pulled away from everyone else. For the next twenty kilometres, the two ran side by side. The gap behind them grew to more than two minutes.

At forty kilometres, the Moroccan tried to run faster. But Bikila answered. Then, about five hundred metres from the end, Bikila made his move. He ran faster and moved clear. In the last sixty metres, he even had to avoid a motor scooter that had come onto the course.

He crossed the finish line at the Arch of Constantine in two hours, fifteen minutes and sixteen seconds. That was a new world record. The runner from Morocco won silver. A man from New Zealand won bronze.

That was not the end. Four years later, in Tokyo, Bikila won again, this time wearing shoes. He set another world record. And he did it just forty days after an operation to take out his appendix. He won by more than four minutes.

Bikila won twelve of the thirteen marathons he finished between 1960 and 1966. He passed away in 1973, aged forty-one. But his influence lives on. After him, great runners from East Africa have won races all over the world. They all owe him a debt, because he showed that it could be done.
