This article tells the story of the first plane to fly around the world without stopping. It never landed. It never added fuel. And it began as a drawing on a small piece of paper.

Aviation people called it the last great goal in flying. The first planes had crossed oceans long before. But nobody had ever flown all the way around the world without a single stop. Everyone thought it was impossible. No plane could carry enough fuel to fly that far. The distance was about forty thousand kilometres.

In 1981, three friends sat in a restaurant in California. One was a pilot who had flown in the war in Vietnam. After the war, he worked as a test pilot. Another was his younger brother, who was famous for designing strange, experimental planes. The third was a woman who held nine world flight records. The brother turned to the pilot and asked a wild question. How would you like to be the first person to fly around the world without stopping for fuel?

They talked about it. There were new materials for planes, and the new materials were very light but very strong. The brother thought he could build a plane from them. The pilot and the woman thought they could fly it. And nobody could think of a good reason not to try.

So the brother picked up a small piece of paper. He drew a plane that looked like a giant wing, and not much more. That was the beginning.

It took six years. They had no money from the government. Instead, many people gave small amounts of money. Engineers and workers offered their time. Companies gave equipment. In the end, the plane had two million dollars' worth of parts in it. It was built in a small building at an airport in the Mojave Desert.

The finished plane was very strange. It weighed only nine hundred kilograms. That is about the same as a small car. But it could carry three times that weight in fuel. In fact, almost the whole plane was a fuel tank. There were seventeen separate containers in the wings and the body. During the flight, the pilots had to move fuel from one container to another, to keep the plane balanced. It was not fast. It flew at only about one hundred and seventy-five kilometres an hour. The main wing was more than thirty-three metres wide. That is wider than the wings of many big passenger planes.

The space for the pilots was tiny. It was only one metre wide and two metres long. One person sat in the pilot's seat. The other had to lie down all the time. They had great trouble changing places.

By December 1986, the plane was ready. The best weather for the trip was in summer. But the team was tired of waiting. They decided to go, even if the weather was bad.

On the fourteenth of December, the pilot and the woman walked around the plane one last time. It looked like a giant white insect. They were going to trust their lives to it for the next nine days.

Then came the take-off. The wings were so full of fuel that they almost touched the ground. The plane rolled slowly down the runway. But something was wrong. The ends of the wings were not lifting. The brother shouted into the radio, "Pull back!" But the pilot did not hear him. The plane came close to the end of the runway. Then, at the last second, the wings swept up, and the plane jumped into the air.

Other planes flew beside it. They saw that the ends of both wings were badly damaged. So the pilot turned the plane in a special way, and the wind broke off the damaged parts. Then he flew out over the Pacific Ocean.

The trip was not fun. The long wings moved up and down in the wind, like a boat on the waves. The flight was very rough. On the second day, a storm was ahead. The pilot flew near it and used its winds to help him. On the third day, he had to fly between huge storm clouds on one side and the airspace of another country on the other side. He kept the plane safely in the middle.

Over Africa, the weather was bad again. The pilot flew almost all of the first sixty hours himself. Then the woman took over for short times. Both were very tired. Suddenly, a red light came on. One engine had too little oil. They had been so busy with the weather that they forgot to check it. Luckily, the engine was not damaged, and they added oil.

Near the end, there was one more scare. Near Mexico, the back engine stopped, because fuel was not reaching it. The front engine had been turned off earlier to save fuel. Now both engines were dead. The plane began to fall. For five minutes, it lost speed and height. Finally, the pilot restarted the front engine. Then the fuel began to flow again, and the back engine worked too.

Nine days after take-off, the plane landed smoothly in California. It had flown forty thousand kilometres. It had not stopped, and it had not taken on fuel.

After landing, the pilot said, "This was the last major event of atmospheric flight." The woman said it was much harder than they had ever imagined. And the brother's wild idea, drawn on a small piece of paper, had worked.
